docs/design/oracles.md, before:

#### Motivation

Users want to use blockchains to gamble on future events. They want to gamble on the price of goods, for example.

An oracle consensus mechanism is a game on a blockchain designed so that the players are incentivized to reveal true facts about the world to the blockchain. Once the blockchain learns facts about the world, it can resolve the bets. Winning gamblers get their money, losing gamblers lose their money.

The oracle consensus mechanism's rewards and punishments are all measured in tokens.

#### Difficulty

There are limitations of using betting as an oracle.

If the oracle lied, then the users could do a hard-fork to fix the oracle's answer. So the attackers would lose all the money in the attack, and that money would reward the users who participated in defense.

If the miners prefer the honest chain, then the difficulty of finding blocks on the dishonest chain will go very low. So the attackers would lose their money on both forks, and defenders would be rewarded on both forks.

The code is focused on punishing the _dishonest fork_ so if we find ourselves with low (lower?) difficulty then we won’t pay out shares, etc. Hence the requirement to get the difficulty oracle going first and have people bet on expected difficulty, then have subsequent oracles refer to the difficulty oracle.

We focus on the blockchain difficulty to determine if our fork is _honest_ and then punish users by not converting their shares into tokens, etc. We also require users to start the difficulty oracle, bet on it and wait for the outcome, all of it before starting a regular oracles. 

There is still one case where an attacker can make the oracle lie. The attacker commits to buying up enough coins on the lying fork, so that the difficulty of the lying fork is higher than the difficulty of the honest fork. A blockchain with higher difficulty is more valuable. So the result of this attack is a blockchain that is more valuable.

Making the blockchain valuable is more important than making the oracle honest. So in this situation, it is acceptable for the oracle to lie.

#### Storing oracles on the blockchain

For questions that are in the process of being answered, we store a market in the on-chain state.

The market remembers how many shares of each type have been sold, and it remembers what it's initial liquidity was, and it should have an order book.

The market has 4 possible outcomes:

1. difficulty goes up, and oracle's outcome is true
2. difficulty goes up, and oracle's outcome is false
3. difficultyzd goes down, and oracle's outcome is true
4. difficulty goes down, and oracle's outcome is false

The initial liquidity will be collected using an off-chain dominant assurance contract.

the result of the oracle is determined by which side of the order book has open orders. If one side has open orders for a long enough period of time, then that side wins.

Since we use an order book, it is expensive for attackers to DDOS us by moving the price past 50% every time the oracle is almost done.

#### Development notes

Difficulty or governance oracles are started with an empty question (`<<"">>`).

Each oracle lets us bet on a Yes/No/Bad question outcome, where bad question is one that can't be answered with a yes or no.

We are supposed to start a difficulty oracle before any others, close it and then use the outcome as difficulty in the question oracle. The outcome is supposed to be "bad" for the difficulty guess to be acceptable. Also, we are supposed to set the difficulty of the question oracle to 1/2 of the difficulty oracle we are referring to.

Oracle initial liquidity is used in `orders:significant_volume`. 

Also, in `oracle_bet_tx:doit2` when inserting one last bet. It's done for an assertion, though, to crash if the bet amount is greater than initial liquidity adjusted for the number of orders.

The account starting the oracle gets debited the initial liquidity, plus fee. 

Q: What does initial liquidity affect? Is it necessary?

Q: Why is the final bet in `oracle_close_tx` created using `constants:oracle_initial_liquidity` and not the governance value?

Q: Shares are converted to tokens at a ratio. Doesn't this potentially create new tokens or burn some?

Q: How do I know if there are unmatched orders for me to get back via `api:oracle_unmatched`? Also, where do I get required order id?

Commit message:

Update development notes and issues

docs/design/oracles.md, after:

#### Motivation

Users want to use blockchains to gamble on future events. They want to gamble on the price of goods, for example.

An oracle consensus mechanism is a game on a blockchain designed so that the players are incentivized to reveal true facts about the world to the blockchain. Once the blockchain learns facts about the world, it can resolve the bets. Winning gamblers get their money, losing gamblers lose their money.

The oracle consensus mechanism's rewards and punishments are all measured in tokens.

#### Difficulty

There are limitations of using betting as an oracle.

If the oracle lied, then the users could do a hard-fork to fix the oracle's answer. So the attackers would lose all the money in the attack, and that money would reward the users who participated in defense.

If the miners prefer the honest chain, then the difficulty of finding blocks on the dishonest chain will go very low. So the attackers would lose their money on both forks, and defenders would be rewarded on both forks.

The code is focused on punishing the _dishonest fork_ so if we find ourselves with low (lower?) difficulty then we won’t pay out shares, etc. Hence the requirement to get the difficulty oracle going first and have people bet on expected difficulty, then have subsequent oracles refer to the difficulty oracle.

We focus on the blockchain difficulty to determine if our fork is _honest_ and then punish users by not converting their shares into tokens, etc. We also require users to start the difficulty oracle, bet on it and wait for the outcome, all of it before starting a regular oracles. 

There is still one case where an attacker can make the oracle lie. The attacker commits to buying up enough coins on the lying fork, so that the difficulty of the lying fork is higher than the difficulty of the honest fork. A blockchain with higher difficulty is more valuable. So the result of this attack is a blockchain that is more valuable.

Making the blockchain valuable is more important than making the oracle honest. So in this situation, it is acceptable for the oracle to lie.

#### Storing oracles on the blockchain

For questions that are in the process of being answered, we store a market in the on-chain state.

The market remembers how many shares of each type have been sold, and it remembers what it's initial liquidity was, and it should have an order book.

The market has 4 possible outcomes:

1. difficulty goes up, and oracle's outcome is true
2. difficulty goes up, and oracle's outcome is false
3. difficultyzd goes down, and oracle's outcome is true
4. difficulty goes down, and oracle's outcome is false

The initial liquidity will be collected using an off-chain dominant assurance contract.

the result of the oracle is determined by which side of the order book has open orders. If one side has open orders for a long enough period of time, then that side wins.

Since we use an order book, it is expensive for attackers to DDOS us by moving the price past 50% every time the oracle is almost done.

#### Development notes

Difficulty or governance oracles are started with an empty question (`<<"">>`).

Each oracle lets us bet on a Yes/No/Bad question outcome, where bad question is one that can't be answered with a yes or no.

We are supposed to start a difficulty oracle before any others, close it and then use the outcome as difficulty in the question oracle. The outcome is supposed to be "bad" for the difficulty guess to be acceptable. Also, we are supposed to set the difficulty of the question oracle to 1/2 of the difficulty oracle we are referring to.

Oracle initial liquidity is used in `orders:significant_volume`. 

Also, in `oracle_bet_tx:doit2` when inserting one last bet. It's done for an assertion, though, to crash if the bet amount is greater than initial liquidity adjusted for the number of orders.

The account starting the oracle gets debited the initial liquidity, plus fee. 

#### Issues

It's unclear who should be starting the difficulty oracle and who should be closing it. 

An extra bet that's added when closing the oracle may extend oracle running time by a week if there's not enough volume. This implies that we may not be able to start a regular question oracle for a week if not enough people are betting on the difficulty oracle.

The whole difficulty requirement seems artificial and unnecessary. 

The final bet in `oracle_close_tx` is created using `constants:oracle_initial_liquidity` and not the governance value.

Shares are converted to tokens [using a ratio](shares.md). This may introduce new tokens into the system. 

Shares are discarded unless their difficulty is less than the block difficulty at the time the shares were last modified. The tokens wagered seem to be lost in this case. 

One is supposed to manually ask for shares back if there are unmatched trades sitting in the order book when the oracle is closed. It's not clear or even possible to check if there are unmatched shares in the oracle order book. Also, why are these not distributed automatically? Last but not least, getting the shares back required supplying the order id but one is never returned to the user when placing a bet.

It's not clear why initial liquidity is needed. Assuming the requirement to have [shares](shares.md) is dropped, bets could be placed and settled entirely in tokens. Suppose user A placed a Yes bet for X tokens and user B placed a No bet for Y tokens. If A won then B's tokens should go to A. The amount should be Y if A's bet X is greater and X otherwise. 

Bets (orders) should be kept in order of arrival. If the total amount of money wagered on one side is greater than the other then bets should be settled in order of arrival. Some winning users then may not double their money but will always get their money back. 

N.B.The above needs more looking into as wagering as described will be double or nothing!
